I'm about to show you a
method that can encode
meaning in a relatively
low dimensional vector.
In other words, a vector
whose dimension is not
necessarily v dimensional.
Words on the left are
considered negative in
some way and words on
the right are considered
positive in some way.
Words that are much
more negative,
are further to the left
and the words that
are much more positive
are further to the right.
You could store
their positions as
numbers in a single
vector of Length 1.
Notice that you can now use
any decimal value
instead of 0 and 1.
This is quite useful,
in that now you can say that
happy and excited that are
more similar to each other
compared to the word paper,
because the number
representing happy
is closer to the number
representing excited.
You can extend this by adding
a vertical number line.
Words that are
higher on this line
are more concrete
physical objects,
whereas words lower on this
line are more abstract ideas.
Again, you can arrange
each word along both of
these number lines and see how
words that are both more
concrete and positive,
like puppy and kitten,
are closer together.
You can store the two numbers
that represent their position
on the two number lines
as a vector of Length 2.
What you've done here is to
represent the vocabulary
of words with a small
vector of Length 2.
You gained a little
bit of meaning
while also giving
up some precision.
This vector
representation is less
precise than one-hot
vectors in that it's
possible for two
words to be located
on the same point
in this 2D plots;
like snake and
spider, for example.
What you created just now is
an example of the
word embedding.
Word embedding represents words
in a vector form that's both,
has a relatively low dimension;
saying the hundreds
to look thousands,
making it practical for
calculations and carries
the meaning of words,
making it possible to
determine how semantically
close words are.
In general purpose vocabularies,
the vector for
forests would usually
be similar to the
vector for tree.
What's very dissimilar to
the vector for ticket,
you will visualize
such similarities
as parts of this
week's assignments.
It also makes it possible
to work out analogies,
such as finding the
missing word in
Paris is to France
as Rome is to?
Encoding the meaning of
words is also the first step
towards encoding the meaning
of entire sentences,
which is the foundation for
more complex NLP use cases
like question answering
and translation.
Creating word
embedding is one of
the main objectives
of this module.
In this week's lecture,
you will implement
word embeddings
from simpler to more
advanced methods.
You'll also begin to build
upon the simpler
representations.
Finally, a note on terminology.
In theory, all vector
representations of words,
including one-hot vectors and
word embedding vectors are
known as word vectors.
The term word vector
and word embeddings
are used as well to refer
to word embedding vectors.
Don't be surprised if you also
see these terms in the wild.
Now that you can transform words
into integers and vectors,
specifically one-hot vectors
and toward embeddings,
you can explain why word
embeddings are better
suited to real-world
applications of NLP.
In this video, I have
shown how a vector with
two-dimensions can tell you
something about [inaudible].
Maybe the first
coordinates will tell
you if the word is positive or
negative and the second
coordinate will tell
you if it is abstract
or concrete.
The more coordinates you have,
the more things you can capture.
In the next video,
I will show you how to
learn these coordinates.